Exception Handling Interview Questions for Freshers
1. What is an exception in Java?
2. What is exception handling in Java and what are the advantages of exception handling?
3. How are exceptions handled in Java?
4. What is exception propagation in Java?
5. What are the important methods defined in Java’s Exception Class?
6. What are runtime exceptions in Java?
7. What is the difference between the throw and throws keywords in Java?
8. How do you handle checked exceptions?
9. Differentiate between Checked Exception and Unchecked Exceptions in Java.
10. Can you catch and handle Multiple Exceptions in Java?
11. What is a stack trace and how is it related to an Exception?
12. What is Exception Chaining?
13. Can we have statements between try, catch and finally blocks?
14. How are the keywords final, finally and finalize different from each other?
15. What is the output of this below program?
16. What is the difference between ClassNotFoundException and NoClassDefFoundError?
17. What do you understand by an unreachable catch block error?

Exception Handling Interview Questions for Experienced
1. Explain Java Exception Hierarchy.
2. What does JVM do when an exception occurs in a program?
3. What happens when an exception is thrown by the main method?
4. Is it possible to throw checked exceptions from a static block?
5. What happens to the exception object after exception handling is complete?
6. What are different scenarios where “Exception in thread main” types of error could occur?
7. Under what circumstances should we subclass an Exception?
8. What happens when you run the below program?
9. Does the finally block always get executed in the Java program?
10. Why it is always recommended to keep the clean-up activities like closing the I/O resources or DB connections inside a finally block?
11. Are we allowed to use only try blocks without a catch and finally blocks?
12. What happens when the below program is run?
13. Is it possible to throw an Exception inside a Lambda Expression’s body?
14. What are the rules we should follow when overriding a method throwing an Exception?
15. What are some of the best practices to be followed while dealing with Java Exception Handling?